Limit Default RBAC Rules For Kanister Operator (#3134)
kanisterio/kanister: docs/rbac.rst

.. _rbac:

RBAC Configuration
******************

To enhance security, the `edit` `ClusterRoleBinding` has been removed from
the Kanister Helm Chart. Users now need to create their own `Role` / `RoleBinding`
in the application's namespace to grant the necessary permissions to
Kanister's Service Account.

Creating a RoleBinding with edit ClusterRole
============================================

> To allow Kanister to perform backup/restore operations in a specific
> namespace, create a `RoleBinding` that assigns the `edit` `ClusterRole`
> to Kanister's Service Account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow Kanister to perform backup/restore operations in an application
namespace, create a `RoleBinding` in the application namespace that associates the `edit` `ClusterRole`
to Kanister's Service Account:
```

Author: Updated

> 

Reviewer: I think we should mentioned that `edit` is a system created cluster role to make sure users don't confused about where did `edit` cluster role come from.

Author: Updated

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl create rolebinding kanister-edit-binding --clusterrole=edit \
  --serviceaccount=<release-namespace>:<release-name>-kanister-operator \
  --namespace=<application-namespace>

Creating a Role with Granular Permissions
=========================================

If you prefer to fine-tune the access, you can create a `Role` with

> specific permissions and bind it to Kanister's Service Account:

Reviewer: I think we should mention that if your blueprint doesn't require access to all the resources that are mentioned in `edit` cluster role, you can create the role with just the resources/verbs that the blueprint requires access to.

Author: Updated

.. _rbac:

RBAC Configuration
******************

To enhance security, the `edit` `ClusterRoleBinding` has been removed from
the Kanister Helm Chart. Users now need to create their own `Role` / `RoleBinding`
in the application's namespace to grant the necessary permissions to
Kanister's Service Account.

Creating a RoleBinding with edit ClusterRole
============================================

> The `edit` role is a built-in Kubernetes system role that provides permissions

Reviewer: `edit` is a cluster role right?

Author: Yeah, will update that

to modify most objects within a namespace, excluding roles, role bindings, and
resource quotas. It allows access to create, update, delete, and view resources

> such as Deployments, Pods, Services, ConfigMaps, PersistentVolumeClaims, and more.

Reviewer: This looks good but I think we should talk about it when we are saying `edit` cluster role has been removed in above section.
Maybe immediately after `RBAC Configuration`, after explaining what `edit` cluster role is, we can say that kanister's service account used to get associated with the kaniter service account which doesn't happen anymore.

And I like how you have reformatted the above paragraphs based on my suggestion so please do that with above suggestion as well.

Author: Could you check once @viveksinghggits

To allow Kanister to perform backup/restore operations in the application
namespace, create a `RoleBinding` in the application namespace that assigns
the `edit` `ClusterRole` to Kanister's Service Account:

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl create rolebinding kanister-edit-binding --clusterrole=edit \
  --serviceaccount=<release-namespace>:<release-name>-kanister-operator \
  --namespace=<application-namespace>

Creating a Role with Granular Permissions
=========================================

If Blueprint doesn't require access to all the resources that are included
in the `edit` ClusterRole, you can create a `Role` in application namespace
with just the specific resources and verbs that Blueprint needs, and a `RoleBinding`
in application namespace to bind the `Role` to Kanister's Service Account.
This approach enhances security by granting only the necessary permissions.

> 1. Create a `Role` with the required permissions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `Role` with the permissions required by your blueprint:
```

Author: Done !

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
  kind: Role
  metadata:
    name: kanister-role
    namespace: <application-namespace>
  rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods", "pods/log", "persistentvolumeclaims" ,"secrets"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
  - apiGroups: ["apps"]
    resources: ["deployments", "statefulsets"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]

2. Create a `RoleBinding` to bind the `Role` to Kanister's Service Account:

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl create rolebinding kanister-role-binding --role=kanister-role \
  --serviceaccount=<release-namespace>:<release-name>-kanister-operator \

>   --namespace=<application-namespace>

Reviewer: Let's add a line after this, saying after doing this kanister would be able to snapshot/restore the namespace successfully.

Author: Done !

.. _rbac:

RBAC Configuration
******************

> Earlier, the Kanister operator was bound to the `edit` `ClusterRole`
> using a `ClusterRoleBinding` provided by the Helm Chart.
> 
> The `edit` `ClusterRole` is a built-in Kubernetes system role that offers
> permissions to modify most objects within a namespace, excluding roles,
> role bindings, and resource quotas. This role allowed access to create,
> update, delete, and view resources such as Deployments, Pods, Services,
> ConfigMaps, PersistentVolumeClaims, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `edit` `ClusterRole` is a built-in Kubernetes system role that offers
permissions to modify most objects within a namespace, excluding roles,
role bindings, and resource quotas. This role allowed access to create,
update, delete, and view resources such as Deployments, Pods, Services,
ConfigMaps, PersistentVolumeClaims, and more. Kanister helm chart used
assign `edit` ClusterRole to the Kanister service account which gave all the
permissions mentioned in the `edit` ClusterRole to the Kanister application.
```

Author: Done !
